DESIGNING FOR AMERICA:

Project Description:

"Good design adds value of some kind, gives meaning, and, not incidentally, can be sheer pleasure to behold; it respects the viewer’s sensibilities and rewards the entrepreneur." — Paul Rand, Design Form and Chaos

What if you could help build an ecosystem of artists designing for public good? What if creative minds could collaborate through a dashboard that fuses the social excitement of dribble.com with the altruism of sparked.com? People volunteer to plant trees, fight fires and build houses -- how about donating good design?

With increasingly small budgets, philanthropic organizations and city governments across America have made good design a secondary priority. As a result organizations that provide fundamental services may not reach and inspire their audiences to seek their help, donate funds or absorb critical information. 

Let's build a way for designers to give back and simultaneously build their portfolio, gather feedback on their work and see their designs in the city around them.


Road Map:

Initially the civic graphic exchange will require researchers, input from general staff and designers to produce a feature set that will create a collaborative platform. While other platforms exist for co-creations for design we think there is an opportunity here. But we need to figure out what we need to stimulate designers  to design for America . 

The initial phase of this product will begin with brainstorming and discussions formulating what this project will look like. As well as a collaborative wiki to discuss other platforms and other practices, desires specifications. Once we have a clear plan for development we’ll need designers, developers, front end and back end to create this open source web app. We will also need user experience experts to perfect the app. Throughout this whole process we will also require government officials, developers and non developers alike sharing their expertise on how to generate interest and how to generate impact within government itself. Once we have a functional platform in place, The hope is that over time we will have citizens and government officials alike submitting drafts and working together on submissions.